== v2.0.2 [2013-06-14] Mahlon E. Smith <mahlon@martini.nu>

- Load YAML safely if the safe_yaml gem is present.


== v2.0.1 [2013-06-07] Mahlon E. Smith <mahlon@martini.nu>

- Repair relationship with Loggability.


== v2.0.0 [2013-01-30] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

- Make missing Configurability::Config values return nil instead of
  auto-vivifying to a Struct.

  This is not a backward-compatible change, but in practice, far more
  work was done to detect non-existant values than was saved by the
  debatable convenience of being able to auto-create nested structs.

- Update to loggability 0.4 and add Rubinius (1.9-mode) fixes.


== v1.2.0 [2012-05-09] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

- Added a command-line utility.
- Convert logging to use Loggability.


== v1.1.0 [2012-04-25] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Add a 'defaults' API that allows defaults to be gathered from any
object with configurability and merged into a hash keyed by the
object's config_key. This hash can be used to generate an initial
unified config file for all configurable parts of a given system.


== v1.0.10 [2012-03-13] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

- Fix log level message.


== v1.0.9 [2012-01-27] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Fix problems associated with inheritance.

- Added a Hash of configure methods that have already been called
  as pairs of Methods and Config sections. (Configurability.configured)
- Use the `configured` hash to avoid re-calling configure with the same
  config section more than once when a class with Configurability is
  inherited.
- Configurability.install_config -- Only use the index operator method
  of the config object if it actually has the config_key as a key. Else
  configure with +nil+.
- Support different whitespace conventions in different YAML libraries

Thanks to Mahlon E. Smith for reporting this bug, and for pairing with
me to fix it.


== v1.0.8 [2011-11-01] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

- Fix for Ruby 1.9.3-p0.


== v1.0.7 [2011-10-13] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

- De-Yard and fix some other documentation/packaging issues.


== v1.0.6 [2011-03-03] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Bugfixes:

* Fixed predicate methods for missing sections/values, which previously returned
  `true` as well.


== v1.0.5 [2011-02-08] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Bugfixes:

* Now handles config files with nil keys correctly.


== v1.0.4 [2010-11-29] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Packaging fix.


== v1.0.3 [2010-11-29] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Enchancements:

* Propagate the installed config to objects that add Configurability after the
  config is loaded.


== v1.0.2 [2010-11-29] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Bugfixes:

* Fixes for specs under 1.9.2.


== v1.0.1 [2010-08-08] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Enhancements:

* Adding a Configurability::Config class for YAML config loading.
* Add an rspec shared behavior for testing classes with Configurability
* Converted tests to RSpec 2.


== v1.0.0 [2010-07-12] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Initial release

